## DNF or YUM?
They both are more or less equivalent in terms of interfaces, so I should probably juste write a single PkgManager class implementation for them, with a constructor parameter that instructs which version of the pkg manager I'm trying to accomodate, and do case by case diversions whenever they show up, but i don't expect them to.

## How to get at the stuff?
I need, as usual:
* Package Name
* Current package version
* New package version
* Repository source (optional)
* Security Update? (optional)


I'm not 100% on how to best query this. So far I have found, for yum/dnf, the following helpers:

```
[supernaut@fenrir ~]$ dnf -q check-update

NetworkManager.x86_64                                            1:1.52.0-3.el9_6                                        baseos
NetworkManager-libnm.x86_64                                      1:1.52.0-3.el9_6                                        baseos
NetworkManager-team.x86_64                                       1:1.52.0-3.el9_6                                        baseos
NetworkManager-tui.x86_64                                        1:1.52.0-3.el9_6                                        baseos
almalinux-gpg-keys.x86_64                                        9.6-1.el9                                               baseos
almalinux-logos.x86_64                                           90.6-1.el9                                              appstream
almalinux-release.x86_64                                         9.6-1.el9                                               baseos
almalinux-repos.x86_64                                           9.6-1.el9                                               baseos
alternatives.x86_64                                              1.24-2.el9                                              baseos
audit.x86_64                                                     3.1.5-4.el9                                             baseos
audit-libs.x86_64                                                3.1.5-4.el9                                             baseos
authselect.x86_64                                                1.2.6-3.el9                                             baseos
authselect-libs.x86_64                                           1.2.6-3.el9                                             baseos
bind.x86_64                                                      32:9.16.23-28.el9_6                                     appstream
bind-chroot.x86_64                                               32:9.16.23-28.el9_6                                     appstream
bind-dnssec-doc.noarch                                           32:9.16.23-28.el9_6                                     appstream
bind-dnssec-utils.x86_64                                         32:9.16.23-28.el9_6                                     appstream
bind-libs.x86_64                                                 32:9.16.23-28.el9_6                                     appstream
bind-license.noarch                                              32:9.16.23-28.el9_6                                     appstream
bind-utils.x86_64                                                32:9.16.23-28.el9_6                                     appstream
binutils.x86_64                                                  2.35.2-63.el9                                           baseos
binutils-gold.x86_64                                             2.35.2-63.el9                                           baseos
chrony.x86_64                                                    4.6.1-1.el9                                             baseos
cloud-init.noarch                                                24.4-4.el9.alma.1                                       appstream
cockpit-bridge.x86_64                                            334.1-1.el9_6                                           baseos
cockpit-system.noarch                                            334.1-1.el9_6                                           baseos
cockpit-ws.x86_64                                                334.1-1.el9_6                                           baseos
coreutils.x86_64                                                 8.32-39.el9                                             baseos
coreutils-common.x86_64                                          8.32-39.el9                                             baseos
cronie.x86_64                                                    1.5.7-13.el9                                            baseos
cronie-anacron.x86_64                                            1.5.7-13.el9                                            baseos
crypto-policies.noarch                                           20250128-1.git5269e22.el9                               baseos
crypto-policies-scripts.noarch                                   20250128-1.git5269e22.el9                               baseos
device-mapper.x86_64                                             9:1.02.202-6.el9                                        baseos
device-mapper-libs.x86_64                                        9:1.02.202-6.el9                                        baseos
dnf.noarch                                                       4.14.0-25.el9.alma.1                                    baseos
dnf-data.noarch                                                  4.14.0-25.el9.alma.1                                    baseos
dnf-plugins-core.noarch                                          4.3.0-20.el9                                            baseos
dracut.x86_64                                                    057-87.git20250311.el9_6                                baseos
dracut-config-generic.x86_64                                     057-87.git20250311.el9_6                                baseos
dracut-network.x86_64                                            057-87.git20250311.el9_6                                baseos
dracut-squash.x86_64                                             057-87.git20250311.el9_6                                baseos
e2fsprogs.x86_64                                                 1.46.5-7.el9                                            baseos
e2fsprogs-libs.x86_64                                            1.46.5-7.el9                                            baseos
elfutils-debuginfod-client.x86_64                                0.192-5.el9                                             baseos
elfutils-default-yama-scope.noarch                               0.192-5.el9                                             baseos
elfutils-libelf.x86_64                                           0.192-5.el9                                             baseos
elfutils-libs.x86_64                                             0.192-5.el9                                             baseos
emacs-filesystem.noarch                                          1:27.2-13.el9_6                                         appstream
ethtool.x86_64                                                   2:6.11-1.el9                                            baseos
expat.x86_64                                                     2.5.0-5.el9_6                                           baseos
fuse-libs.x86_64                                                 2.9.9-17.el9                                            baseos
fwupd.x86_64                                                     1.9.26-1.el9.alma.1                                     baseos
fwupd-plugin-flashrom.x86_64                                     1.9.26-1.el9.alma.1                                     appstream
git.x86_64                                                       2.47.1-2.el9_6                                          appstream
git-core.x86_64                                                  2.47.1-2.el9_6                                          appstream
git-core-doc.noarch                                              2.47.1-2.el9_6                                          appstream
glib2.x86_64                                                     2.68.4-16.el9                                           baseos
glibc.x86_64                                                     2.34-168.el9_6.14.alma.1                                baseos
glibc-common.x86_64                                              2.34-168.el9_6.14.alma.1                                baseos
glibc-gconv-extra.x86_64                                         2.34-168.el9_6.14.alma.1                                baseos
glibc-minimal-langpack.x86_64                                    2.34-168.el9_6.14.alma.1                                baseos
gnutls.x86_64                                                    3.8.3-6.el9                                             baseos
grub2-common.noarch                                              1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
grub2-efi-x64.x86_64                                             1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
grub2-pc.x86_64                                                  1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
grub2-pc-modules.noarch                                          1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
grub2-tools.x86_64                                               1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
grub2-tools-efi.x86_64                                           1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
grub2-tools-extra.x86_64                                         1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
grub2-tools-minimal.x86_64                                       1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
hwdata.noarch                                                    0.348-9.18.el9                                          baseos
ima-evm-utils.x86_64                                             1.5-3.el9                                               baseos
initscripts-rename-device.x86_64                                 10.11.8-4.el9                                           baseos
initscripts-service.noarch                                       10.11.8-4.el9                                           baseos
iproute.x86_64                                                   6.11.0-1.el9                                            baseos
iputils.x86_64                                                   20210202-11.el9                                         baseos
irqbalance.x86_64                                                2:1.9.4-2.el9                                           baseos
kbd.x86_64                                                       2.4.0-11.el9                                            baseos
kbd-legacy.noarch                                                2.4.0-11.el9                                            baseos
kbd-misc.noarch                                                  2.4.0-11.el9                                            baseos
kernel.x86_64                                                    5.14.0-570.12.1.el9_6                                   baseos
kernel-core.x86_64                                               5.14.0-570.12.1.el9_6                                   baseos
kernel-modules.x86_64                                            5.14.0-570.12.1.el9_6                                   baseos
kernel-modules-core.x86_64                                       5.14.0-570.12.1.el9_6                                   baseos
kernel-tools.x86_64                                              5.14.0-570.12.1.el9_6                                   baseos
kernel-tools-libs.x86_64                                         5.14.0-570.12.1.el9_6                                   baseos
kexec-tools.x86_64                                               2.0.29-5.el9                                            baseos
kpartx.x86_64                                                    0.8.7-35.el9                                            baseos
krb5-libs.x86_64                                                 1.21.1-6.el9                                            baseos
libblkid.x86_64                                                  2.37.4-21.el9                                           baseos
libbpf.x86_64                                                    2:1.5.0-1.el9                                           baseos
libbson.x86_64                                                   1.30.4-1.el9                                            epel
libcom_err.x86_64                                                1.46.5-7.el9                                            baseos
libdb.x86_64                                                     5.3.28-55.el9                                           baseos
libdnf.x86_64                                                    0.69.0-13.el9.alma.1                                    baseos
libev.x86_64                                                     4.33-6.el9                                              baseos
libfdisk.x86_64                                                  2.37.4-21.el9                                           baseos
libibverbs.x86_64                                                54.0-1.el9                                              baseos
libldb.x86_64                                                    4.21.3-3.el9                                            baseos
libmongocrypt.x86_64                                             1.14.0-1.el9                                            epel
libmount.x86_64                                                  2.37.4-21.el9                                           baseos
libnfsidmap.x86_64                                               1:2.5.4-34.el9                                          baseos
libnl3.x86_64                                                    3.11.0-1.el9                                            baseos
libnl3-cli.x86_64                                                3.11.0-1.el9                                            baseos
libselinux.x86_64                                                3.6-3.el9                                               baseos
libselinux-utils.x86_64                                          3.6-3.el9                                               baseos
libsemanage.x86_64                                               3.6-5.el9_6                                             baseos
libsepol.x86_64                                                  3.6-2.el9                                               baseos
libsmartcols.x86_64                                              2.37.4-21.el9                                           baseos
libsoup.x86_64                                                   2.72.0-10.el9_6.1                                       appstream
libss.x86_64                                                     1.46.5-7.el9                                            baseos
libsss_certmap.x86_64                                            2.9.6-4.el9_6.2                                         baseos
libsss_idmap.x86_64                                              2.9.6-4.el9_6.2                                         baseos
libsss_nss_idmap.x86_64                                          2.9.6-4.el9_6.2                                         baseos
libsss_sudo.x86_64                                               2.9.6-4.el9_6.2                                         baseos
libtasn1.x86_64                                                  4.16.0-9.el9                                            baseos
libtdb.x86_64                                                    1.4.12-1.el9                                            baseos
libuser.x86_64                                                   0.63-16.el9                                             baseos
libuuid.x86_64                                                   2.37.4-21.el9                                           baseos
libxml2.x86_64                                                   2.9.13-9.el9_6                                          baseos
libzstd.x86_64                                                   1.5.5-1.el9                                             baseos
linux-firmware-whence.noarch                                     20250314-151.el9_6                                      baseos
logrotate.x86_64                                                 3.18.0-9.el9                                            baseos
logwatch.noarch                                                  7.5.5-7.el9                                             appstream
lshw.x86_64                                                      B.02.20-1.el9                                           baseos
microcode_ctl.noarch                                             4:20250211-1.el9_6                                      baseos
mongo-c-driver-libs.x86_64                                       1.30.4-1.el9                                            epel
nettle.x86_64                                                    3.10.1-1.el9                                            baseos
nfs-utils.x86_64                                                 1:2.5.4-34.el9                                          baseos
numactl-libs.x86_64                                              2.0.19-1.el9                                            baseos
openldap.x86_64                                                  2.6.8-4.el9                                             baseos
openssh.x86_64                                                   8.7p1-45.el9                                            baseos
openssh-clients.x86_64                                           8.7p1-45.el9                                            baseos
openssh-server.x86_64                                            8.7p1-45.el9                                            baseos
pam.x86_64                                                       1.5.1-23.el9                                            baseos
parted.x86_64                                                    3.5-3.el9                                               baseos
pciutils-libs.x86_64                                             3.7.0-7.el9                                             baseos
perl-Git.noarch                                                  2.47.1-2.el9_6                                          appstream
pigz.x86_64                                                      2.8-1.el9                                               baseos
protobuf.x86_64                                                  3.14.0-16.el9                                           appstream
python-unversioned-command.noarch                                3.9.21-2.el9                                            appstream
python3.x86_64                                                   3.9.21-2.el9                                            baseos
python3-audit.x86_64                                             3.1.5-4.el9                                             appstream
python3-bind.noarch                                              32:9.16.23-28.el9_6                                     appstream
python3-dnf.noarch                                               4.14.0-25.el9.alma.1                                    baseos
python3-dnf-plugins-core.noarch                                  4.3.0-20.el9                                            baseos
python3-hawkey.x86_64                                            0.69.0-13.el9.alma.1                                    baseos
python3-libdnf.x86_64                                            0.69.0-13.el9.alma.1                                    baseos
python3-libs.x86_64                                              3.9.21-2.el9                                            baseos
python3-libselinux.x86_64                                        3.6-3.el9                                               appstream
python3-libsemanage.x86_64                                       3.6-5.el9_6                                             appstream
python3-libxml2.x86_64                                           2.9.13-9.el9_6                                          baseos
python3-perf.x86_64                                              5.14.0-570.12.1.el9_6                                   appstream
python3-requests.noarch                                          2.25.1-9.el9                                            baseos
python3-rpm.x86_64                                               4.16.1.3-37.el9                                         baseos
qemu-guest-agent.x86_64                                          17:9.1.0-15.el9.alma.2                                  appstream
quota.x86_64                                                     1:4.09-4.el9                                            baseos
quota-nls.noarch                                                 1:4.09-4.el9                                            baseos
rootfiles.noarch                                                 8.1-34.el9                                              baseos
rpm.x86_64                                                       4.16.1.3-37.el9                                         baseos
rpm-build-libs.x86_64                                            4.16.1.3-37.el9                                         baseos
rpm-libs.x86_64                                                  4.16.1.3-37.el9                                         baseos
rpm-plugin-audit.x86_64                                          4.16.1.3-37.el9                                         baseos
rpm-plugin-selinux.x86_64                                        4.16.1.3-37.el9                                         baseos
rpm-plugin-systemd-inhibit.x86_64                                4.16.1.3-37.el9                                         appstream
rpm-sign-libs.x86_64                                             4.16.1.3-37.el9                                         baseos
rsync.x86_64                                                     3.2.5-3.el9                                             baseos
rsyslog.x86_64                                                   8.2412.0-1.el9                                          appstream
rsyslog-logrotate.x86_64                                         8.2412.0-1.el9                                          appstream
selinux-policy.noarch                                            38.1.53-5.el9_6                                         baseos
selinux-policy-targeted.noarch                                   38.1.53-5.el9_6                                         baseos
sg3_utils.x86_64                                                 1.47-10.el9                                             baseos
sg3_utils-libs.x86_64                                            1.47-10.el9                                             baseos
shadow-utils.x86_64                                              2:4.9-12.el9                                            baseos
sssd-client.x86_64                                               2.9.6-4.el9_6.2                                         baseos
sssd-common.x86_64                                               2.9.6-4.el9_6.2                                         baseos
sssd-kcm.x86_64                                                  2.9.6-4.el9_6.2                                         baseos
sssd-nfs-idmap.x86_64                                            2.9.6-4.el9_6.2                                         baseos
systemd.x86_64                                                   252-51.el9.alma.1                                       baseos
systemd-libs.x86_64                                              252-51.el9.alma.1                                       baseos
systemd-pam.x86_64                                               252-51.el9.alma.1                                       baseos
systemd-rpm-macros.noarch                                        252-51.el9.alma.1                                       baseos
systemd-udev.x86_64                                              252-51.el9.alma.1                                       baseos
tuned.noarch                                                     2.25.1-1.el9                                            baseos
usermode.x86_64                                                  1.114-6.el9                                             baseos
util-linux.x86_64                                                2.37.4-21.el9                                           baseos
util-linux-core.x86_64                                           2.37.4-21.el9                                           baseos
vim-common.x86_64                                                2:8.2.2637-22.el9_6                                     appstream
vim-enhanced.x86_64                                              2:8.2.2637-22.el9_6                                     appstream
vim-filesystem.noarch                                            2:8.2.2637-22.el9_6                                     baseos
vim-minimal.x86_64                                               2:8.2.2637-22.el9_6                                     baseos
virt-what.x86_64                                                 1.27-1.el9                                              baseos
webkit2gtk3-jsc.x86_64                                           2.48.1-1.el9_6                                          appstream
xfsprogs.x86_64                                                  6.4.0-5.el9                                             baseos
yum.noarch                                                       4.14.0-25.el9.alma.1                                    baseos
yum-utils.noarch                                                 4.3.0-20.el9                                            baseos
Obsoleting Packages
grub2-tools.x86_64                                               1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
    grub2-tools.x86_64                                           1:2.06-94.el9_5.alma.1                                  @baseos
grub2-tools-efi.x86_64                                           1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
    grub2-tools.x86_64                                           1:2.06-94.el9_5.alma.1                                  @baseos
grub2-tools-extra.x86_64                                         1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
    grub2-tools.x86_64                                           1:2.06-94.el9_5.alma.1                                  @baseos
grub2-tools-minimal.x86_64                                       1:2.06-104.el9_6.alma.1                                 baseos
    grub2-tools.x86_64                                           1:2.06-94.el9_5.alma.1                                  @baseos
libldb.i686                                                      4.21.3-3.el9                                            baseos
    libldb.x86_64                                                2.9.1-2.el9                                             @baseos
libldb.x86_64                                                    4.21.3-3.el9                                            baseos
    libldb.x86_64                                                2.9.1-2.el9                                             @baseos
```
This however has the following downsides:
* Obsoleted packages are their own weird ass section
* Packages only display new version, not current. I can query this as a two step thing but this sounds IO INTENSIVE

